---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started

## Setup LOST

LOST releases are hosted on DockerHub and shipped in Containers. See
`quick-setup` for more information.

## Getting Data into LOST

### Image Data

In the current version there is no GUI available in order to load images
into LOST. So we will use the command line or a file explorer to do
that. An image dataset in LOST is just a folder with images. LOST will
recognize all folders that are located at *path_to_lost/data/data/media*
in your filesystem as a dataset. In order to add your dataset just copy
it to the path above e.g.:

> ``` bash
> # Copy your dataset into the LOST media folder
> cp -r path/to/my/dataset path_to_lost/data/data/media 
>
> # It may be required that you copy it as a super user since the 
> # docker container that executes LOST is running as root service 
> # and owns the media folder.
> sudo cp -r path/to/my/dataset path_to_lost/data/data/media
> ```

### LabelTrees

LabelTrees. Each LabelLeaf need to have at least a **name**. Optional
information for a LabelLeaf are a **description**, an **abbreviation**
and an **external ID** (maybe from another system). LOST provides a GUI
to create or edit LabelTrees and an import of LabelTrees defined in a
CSV file via the command line. In order to be able to edit LabelTrees in
LOST you need to login as a user with role **Designer**. After login you
need to click on the **Labels** button on the left navigation bar.

## Users, Groups and Roles

roles in LOST: A **Designer** and an **Annotator** role. Both roles have
different views and access to information. An **Annotators** job is just
to work on annotation tasks that are assigned to him, while a
**Designer** may do more advanced stuff and everything an **Annotator**
may do. For example a **Designer** will start annotation piplines and
choose or edit LabelTrees for the annotation tasks.

Independent of its role a user can be part of one or multiple user
**Groups**. In this way annotation tasks can be a assigned to **Groups**
of users that can work collaborative on the same task.

In order to manage users and groups, click on the **Users** icon on the
left menu bar. Please note that only users with the role **Designer**
are allowed to manage users.

## Starting an Annotation Pipeline

pipelines. Such a pipeline defines the order in which specific pipeline
elements will be executed. Possible elements are **Datasources**,
**Scripts**, **AnnotationTasks**, **DataExports** and **VisualOutputs**.

Each version of LOST is equipped with a selection of standard pipelines
that can be used as a quick start to annotate your data. In order to
start an annotation pipeline you need to be logged in in as a user with
role **Designer** and click on the **Start Pipeline** button on the left
navigation bar. Now you will see a table with possible pipelines that
can be started.

After selecting a pipeline by a click on a specific row in the table you
need to configure it. A visualization of the selected pipeline will be
displayed. In most cases a **Datasource** is the first element of a
pipeline. Click on it and select an available dataset. After a click on
the **OK** button the pipeline element will turn green to indicate that
the configuration was successful.

The next element you need to look for is an **AnnotationTask**. After
clicking on it a wizard will pop up and guide you through the
configuration of this AnnotationTask. In the first step a **name** and
**instructions** for the AnnotationTask can be defined. Click on the
next button and select a user or group of users that should perform this
AnnotationTask. Now a **LabelTree** need to be selected by clicking on a
specific tree in the table. Now a visualization of the **LabelTree**
will be displayed. Here you can select a subset of labels that should be
used for the AnnotationTask. The idea is that each parent leaf
represents a category that can be selected to use all direct child leafs
as labels. So if you click on a leaf, all direct child leafs will be
used as possible labels for the AnnotationTask. It is possible to select
multiple leafs as label categories. After selecting the label subset
click on **OK** and the configuration of this AnnotationTask is done.

Now visit all other elements that not have been configured (indicated by
a yellow color) and move on to the next step in the wizard. Here you can
enter a **name** and a **description** of your pipeline. After entering
these information you can click on the checkmark symbol to get to the
**Start Pipe** button. With a click on this button your annotation
pipeline will be started :-)

You can monitor the state of all running pipelines on your **Designer**
dashboard. To get to a specific pipeline click on the **Dashboard**
button in the left navigation bar and select a pipeline in the table.

Out of the box pipelines ==================== #TODO GR

## Annotate Your Images

requested all annotations for an **AnnotationTask**, selected annotators
will be able to work on it. If you are logged in as a user with role
**Designer** you can now switch to the annotator view by clicking on the
**Annotator** button at the upper right corner of your browser. You will
be redirected to the
`annotator dashboard <annotators-your-dashboard>`. If you are logged in as a user with role **Annotator** you
see this dashboard directly after login.

Here you can see a table with all available **AnnotationTasks** for you.
Click on a task you want to work on and you will be redirected to one of
the annotation tools (see also the `annotators` chapter). Now instructions will pop up and you are ready to
annotate.

## Download Your Annotation Results

Instant Annotation Export
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--#TODO GR

Out Of The Box pack_dataset Pipeline
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--#TODO GR

Data Export Pipeline Element
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--#TODO GR All example
pipelines in LOST have a **Script** element that will export your
annotations to a CSV file when the annotation process has finished. To
download this file go to the **Designer** dashboard that is part of the
**Designer** view and select a pipeline. A visualization of the
annotation process will be displayed. Look for a **DataExport** element
and click on it. A pop up will appear that shows all files that are
available for download. Now click on a file and the download will start.
