---
sidebar_position: 0
title: Welcome
---

# Welcome to LOST's documentation

<figure>
<img src="images/LOSTFeaturesIn40seconds.gif"
alt="images/LOSTFeaturesIn40seconds.gif" />
<figcaption>LOST features in a nutshell.</figcaption>
</figure>

## About LOST

LOST (Label Object and Save Time) is a **flexible** **web-based**
framework for **semi-automatic** image annotation. It provides multiple
annotation interfaces for fast image annotation.

LOST is **flexible** since it allows to run user defined annotation
pipelines where different annotation interfaces/ tools and algorithms
can be combined in one process.

It is **web-based** since the whole annotation process is visualized in
your browser. You can quickly setup LOST with docker on your local
machine or run it on a web server to make an annotation process
available to your annotators around the world. LOST allows to organize
label trees, to monitor the state of an annotation process and to do
annotations inside the browser.

LOST was especially designed to model **semi-automatic** annotation
pipelines to speed up the annotation process. Such a semi-automatic can
be achieved by using AI generated annotation proposals that are
presented to an annotator inside the annotation tool.

:::
Getting Started \<getting_started/index.rst\> Managing Annotation
Pipelines \<managing_annotation_pipelines/index.rst\> Annotation
\<annotation/index.rst\> Admin Area \<admin_area/index.rst\> Developing
Pipelines \<developing_pipelines/index.rst\> Configuration
\<configuration/index.rst\> Setup \<setup/index.rst\> Contribution
\<contribution_guide.rst\>
:::

## Indices and tables

- `genindex`
- `search`
